# My Data Science Portfolio
Hi, everyone! This repository contains a multitude of data science and machine learning projects that I have completed. Many of these projects are related to data science/statistics courses and certificates I've completed in the past (either as part of my undergrad at UCLA, or through online courses), mixed in with a few I completed just for fun. These projects are written either using R or Python 3. They're meant to be beginner-friendly and I've included the datasets I've used wherever possible in order for you to be able to follow along. More information on these certificates can be found on my [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/aryan-mistry/).

### [Analyzing Seattle Accident Severity Data](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/blob/main/Analyzing%20Seattle%20Accident%20Severity%20Data/Analyzing%20Accident%20Severity%20Data%20in%20Seattle%20(2014-2020).ipynb):
> This is my capstone project for the 9-part IBM Data Science Professional Certificate track curated by Coursera. It centers around analyzing and predicting the severity of vehicular accidents in Seattle, Washington based on information such as time of day, date, road conditions, light conditions, weather conditions, and location. The project uses SVMs to parse and analyze the data, and also covers data cleaning, label-encoding, and feature selection. My full report of the project and findings can be found [here](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/blob/main/Analyzing%20Seattle%20Accident%20Severity%20Data/Analyzing%20Seattle%20Accident%20Severity%20Data.pdf).

### [STATS 101A: Predicting the Price of Automobiles Using Multiple Linear Regression](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/tree/main/STATS%20101A:%20Predicting%20the%20Price%20of%20Automobiles%20in%20the%20U.S.%20Market):
> This was the final project for my STATS 101A course at UCLA. It involves analyzing a dataset that describes the sale prices of various automobiles sold in the US market, and selecting/creating the best subset of features to use in building a predictive MLR model using R. This project required some creative feature engineering, because an overly complex model consisting of too many predictors was subject to a grading penalty.

### [STATS 101C: Using a Gradient-Boosted Tree Model to Predict Voting Outcomes for the 2020 US Presidential Election](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/tree/main/STATS%20101C:%20Predicting%202020%20US%20Presidential%20Election%20Results):
> This was the final project for my STATS 101C course at UCLA. The task was to create a machine learning model that used voter demographic data for a given county for the 2020 election to predict what percentage of that county's population would vote for Joe Biden. The data was sourced from the MIT Election Lab and the US Census Bureau and described information such as the number and percentage of males, females, individuals with a college degree, individuals of certain races, etc. for every single county in 49 US states. After significant trial and error, a gradient-boosted tree model with tuned hyperparameters was used for the project.

### [Creating an Interactive Choropleth Map of Crime in San Francisco](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Visualization%20with%20Folium%20-%20SF%20Crime/SF%20Crime%20Choropleth%20Map.ipynb):
>> I did this project as part of Coursera's IBM Data Science Professional Certificate. It covers the creation of an interactive choropleth map of crime in San Francisco using Python's Folium package, a powerful tool for geospatial visualizations. 

### [NASA Satellite Telemetry Analysis](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/tree/main/NASA%20Satellite%20Telemetry%20Analysis):
> This is my code submission for the PCC-Caltech Lunar Trailblazer internship, a development program for a small satellite to be used for mapping water bodies on the surface of the Moon. The project is an analysis of NASA telemetry data of an unnamed satellite in Low Earth Orbit. Using various observations such as the temperatures of the various satellite components (such as its solar panels, antennae, and boost converters), as well as battery information, I try to determine the period and speed of the satellite's orbit around Earth. This project covers data preprocessing, data cleaning, dataframe parsing, and visualization using the MatPlotLib Python package.

### [Breast Cancer K-Nearest Neighbors Classifier](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/blob/main/Breast%20Cancer%20KNN%20Classifier/K-Nearest-Neighbors%20Breast%20Cancer%20Classifier.ipynb):
> This is a small project that I did as part of Codecademy's Data Science track. It uses a SciKitLearn dataset and a reiterating KNN machine learning algorithm to determine an optimal k-value that yields the highest accuracy in determining which tumors are benign and which are malignant and therefore indicative of breast cancer.

### [Data Cleaning with a Craigslist Automobile Dataset](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/blob/main/Data%20Cleaning%20with%20Craigslist%20Cars/Data%20Cleaning%20with%20a%20Craigslist%20Automobile%20Database.ipynb):
> This project covers many fundamental data cleaning and data preprocessing techniques that are necessary in preparing a raw dataset before it can be used as input for a machine learning algorithm.

### [Analyzing Honey Production Numbers Across America](https://github.com/AMistry001/Data_Science_Portfolio/tree/main/Honey%20Production%20Project):
> This is a basic introduction to linear regression with SciKitLearn's "Linear_Model" module. Using a dataset sourced from Codecademy, it covers the creation of scatter plots and fitting a regression line to set of data points to uncover trends.
